Luciolinae transforms a blacked-out chamber into a liminal space. Patterns of light and sound merge and transcend their pure physical qualities, becoming physical traces of the consciousness and communication, intelligence and contemplation, of machines structures and beings beyond our ability to comprehend. Referencing Morse code, the Trans-Atlantic Telegraph Cable, coded pulses of light transmitting digital data on fibre optic cables, and the vast quantities of data that are collected, analysed and processed in the day-to-day operation of technological-capitalist society, Luciolinae draws new experiences from the gap between perception and comprehension: within its space we know that something is happening in front of us, but we lack the ability to understand it fully, and with this moment of confusion our experience slips beyond the physical facts of light, sound, and surround, exploring the space between sacred and profane.

In Luciolinae, light and sound emitting devices are distributed throughout a darkened space, suspended at chest-height. Together, they emit patterned bursts of light and pulses of sound surrounded by periods of darkness and silence. The bursts in fact are a form of communication between the devices: the patterns of light and sound encode instructions for how to produce other patterns. Each device in turn listens for a coded input and then attempts to use that input as a new output, either as a reproduction or as an instructions to modify an existing pattern. However, the fact that there are multiple devices placed in a single space and in range with each other means that each individual device is competing to transmit its code with the most clarity; similarly, during its listening phase each device must try to listen through a noisy environment for a clear signal. In this way, the patterns can be understood as genetic sequences, encoding behaviour.

Inevitably, due to the construction of the devices and their environment, information will be lost, and the code will become garbled. The artwork of Luciolinae therefore exists in the evolution of patterns over time. Furthermore, because the devices are communicating using light and sound, which are media familiar to and capable of being influenced by the human body, the audience to the artwork has the opportunity to bring themselves right inside the evolutionary process. By walking between the devices, lines of sight are disturbed and clear channels become obstructed; by talking or clapping of hands, auditory communication is interrupted and altered. Thus in Luciolinae the audience is brought right inside the process, where evolution, interaction, and experience all occur at the same time, in the same media, in the same space. 